Frank McCourt|For decades, Frank McCourt taught English in New York public schools, quietly scribbling stories about his poverty-stricken Irish childhood. Publishers showed little interest. But at 66, he released “Angela’s Ashes”. The memoir was raw, funny, and heartbreaking - and it became an instant hit, winning the Pulitzer Prize. Overnight, McCourt went from a retired teacher to a celebrated author. His late literary career inspired countless readers - and writers - who feared it was “too late” to start.


Anna Mary Robertson|Anna Mary Robertson “Grandma” Moses took up painting in her late 70s, after arthritis made embroidery too painful. Using house paint at first, she created simple but vivid scenes of rural American life. Discovered by a New York art dealer, she quickly gained fame, with her work shown in major museums. At 80, she was called “the Grandma Moses of the art world.” She painted more than 1,500 works, some selling for tens of thousands of dollars. Her joyful second career showed that creativity doesn’t fade with age - it can blossom unexpectedly.


Estelle Getty|Estelle Getty spent decades acting in community theater and bit parts, while raising her two sons and working day jobs to make a living. Fame seemed unlikely. But in 1985, at age 63, she landed the role of Sophia Petrillo on “The Golden Girls”. Her sharp wit and warmth made her an audience favorite, winning an Emmy and worldwide recognition. Getty often said she had been “discovered at the right time,” because she was mature enough to handle the sudden fame.


Fauja Singh|As a young boy, Fauja Singh loved running, but he gave it up when farming and family life took over. He rediscovered his passion only in his late 80s, after moving to the UK from India. He first ran to cope with grief, but soon discovered a love for marathons. At 100, he became the world’s oldest marathon runner, completing the Toronto Waterfront Marathon in over 8 hours. Known as the “Turbaned Tornado,” Singh credited his simple vegetarian diet and positivity for his stamina. Even after retiring from competitive running at 101, he still enjoyed cheering on marathon runners at events.


Harriet Doerr|Harriet Doerr had always loved books, but most of her adult life was devoted to raising her family. In her 60s, after her husband’s death, she returned to California and, encouraged by her son, went back to university. She completed her BA in European history at the age of 67. She also enrolled in creative writing workshops, finally giving her imagination space to grow. At 74, she published her first novel, “Stones for Ibarra”, which won the National Book Award. Doerr often said she never felt late to writing - she arrived exactly when she was ready.


Shigemi Hirata|At 96, Shigemi Hirata became the world’s oldest university graduate, earning a Bachelor of Arts in Ceramic Arts from Kyoto University of Art and Design. He enrolled at 85, inspired by a pottery class he took as a pensioner. Despite health setbacks, he completed the 11-year correspondence course with distinction. Hirata, a WWII navy veteran and former hospital worker, said, “Learning is always fun at any age.”


Colonel Harland Sanders|For most of his life, Harland Sanders bounced between jobs - farmer, streetcar conductor, insurance salesman. In his mid-60s, living off a small pension, he started traveling across the U.S. with a pressure cooker, pitching his vision for a perfect fried chicken. Driving from town to town, he was trying to persuade restaurant owners to use his recipe for a small fee. At 65, he formally launched the Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise. Within a decade, the brand had spread across the United States.


Doris “Granny D” Haddock|At 88, Doris Haddock decided to walk across America - not for fitness, but to fight political corruption. On January 1, 1999, she set off from California, walking 10 miles a day for 14 months. She crossed deserts, mountains, and snow-covered roads, even skiing part of the way. At 90, she arrived in Washington, D.C., greeted by thousands. Her 3,200-mile journey helped spotlight campaign finance reform and inspired a movement. Later, at 94, she ran for U.S. Senate, becoming the oldest candidate in history.


Laura Ingalls Wilder|Laura Ingalls Wilder spent most of her life as a farmer’s wife, teacher, and mother in the American Midwest. Only in her sixties, encouraged by her daughter Rose, did she begin writing down memories of her childhood on the frontier. At 65, she published “Little House in the Big Woods”, the first in what became the beloved “Little House” series. Her books taught generations about resilience, hardship, and hope, and can be used as a reminder of how lived experience can be a rich source of creativity.